"I own you have pleased and flattered me."  Never had she been so
charming, in Vendale's eyes, as she was at that moment.  Her winter
dress--a petticoat of dark silk, with a bodice of black velvet
rising to her neck, and enclosing it softly in a little circle of
swansdown--heightened, by all the force of contrast, the dazzling
fairness of her hair and her complexion.  It was only when she
turned aside from him to the glass, and, taking out the brooch that
she wore, put his New Year's gift in its place, that Vendale's
attention wandered far enough away from her to discover the presence
of other persons in the room.  He now became conscious that the
hands of Obenreizer were affectionately in possession of his elbows.
He now heard the voice of Obenreizer thanking him for his attention
to Marguerite, with the faintest possible ring of mockery in its
tone.  ("Such a simple present, dear sir! and showing such nice
tact!")  He now discovered, for the first time, that there was one
other guest, and but one, besides himself, whom Obenreizer presented
as a compatriot and friend.  The friend's face was mouldy, and the
friend's figure was fat.  His age was suggestive of the autumnal
period of human life.  In the course of the evening he developed two
extraordinary capacities.  One was a capacity for silence; the other
was a capacity for emptying bottles.

Madame Dor was not in the room.  Neither was there any visible place
reserved for her when they sat down to table.  Obenreizer explained
that it was "the good Dor's simple habit to dine always in the
middle of the day.  She would make her excuses later in the
evening."  Vendale wondered whether the good Dor had, on this
occasion, varied her domestic employment from cleaning Obenreizer's
gloves to cooking Obenreizer's dinner.  This at least was certain--
the dishes served were, one and all, as achievements in cookery,
high above the reach of the rude elementary art of England.  The
dinner was unobtrusively perfect.  As for the wine, the eyes of the
speechless friend rolled over it, as in solemn ecstasy.  Sometimes
he said "Good!" when a bottle came in full; and sometimes he said
"Ah!" when a bottle went out empty--and there his contributions to
the gaiety of the evening ended.

Silence is occasionally infectious.  Oppressed by private anxieties
of their own, Marguerite and Vendale appeared to feel the influence
of the speechless friend.  The whole responsibility of keeping the
talk going rested on Obenreizer's shoulders, and manfully did
Obenreizer sustain it.  He opened his heart in the character of an
enlightened foreigner, and sang the praises of England.  When other
topics ran dry, he returned to this inexhaustible source, and always
set the stream running again as copiously as ever.  Obenreizer would
have given an arm, an eye, or a leg to have been born an Englishman.
Out of England there was no such institution as a home, no such
thing as a fireside, no such object as a beautiful woman.  His dear
Miss Marguerite would excuse him, if he accounted for HER
attractions on the theory that English blood must have mixed at some
former time with their obscure and unknown ancestry.  Survey this
English nation, and behold a tall, clean, plump, and solid people!
Look at their cities!  What magnificence in their public buildings!
What admirable order and propriety in their streets!  Admire their
laws, combining the eternal principle of justice with the other
eternal principle of pounds, shillings, and pence; and applying the
product to all civil injuries, from an injury to a man's honour, to
an injury to a man's nose!  You have ruined my daughter--pounds,
shillings, and pence!  You have knocked me down with a blow in my
face--pounds, shillings, and pence!  Where was the material
prosperity of such a country as THAT to stop?  Obenreizer,
projecting himself into the future, failed to see the end of it.
Obenreizer's enthusiasm entreated permission to exhale itself,
English fashion, in a toast.  Here is our modest little dinner over,
here is our frugal dessert on the table, and here is the admirer of
England conforming to national customs, and making a speech!  A
toast to your white cliffs of Albion, Mr. Vendale! to your national
virtues, your charming climate, and your fascinating women! to your
Hearths, to your Homes, to your Habeas Corpus, and to all your other
institutions!  In one word--to England!  Heep-heep-heep! hooray!

Obenreizer's voice had barely chanted the last note of the English
cheer, the speechless friend had barely drained the last drop out of
his glass, when the festive proceedings were interrupted by a modest
tap at the door.  A woman-servant came in, and approached her master
with a little note in her hand.  Obenreizer opened the note with a
frown; and, after reading it with an expression of genuine
annoyance, passed it on to his compatriot and friend.  Vendale's
spirits rose as he watched these proceedings.  Had he found an ally
in the annoying little note?  Was the long-looked-for chance
actually coming at last?